README.md, before:

# VBT-Barbell-Tracker
Optically track a barbell through its range of motion using OpenCV to give the lifter realtime feedback on concentric avg velocity, cutoff velocity, and displacement for a Velocity Based Training program.

## Motivation

...

## Journey

...

## VBT
There are many studies and much commentary on VBT. Here's one link to start you off https://www.scienceforsport.com/velocity-based-training

## Requirements
- Python 3.7
- A webcam or IP camera that supports RTSP
- Green paper/paint/etc.

## Installation

1. Create a new python 3.7 virtualenv
```
mkvirtualenv VBT-barbell-tracker
```

2. Install python requirements
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Optional (but recommended)
1. Generate intrinsic camera distortion values to undistort the values
...

## Usage

```
workon VBT-barbell-tracker
```

### Running it on a video
```
python vbt_barbell_tracker.py --video press.mp4
```

### Running it with your webcam
```
python VBT-barbell-tracker.py
```

### Running it on a RTSP stream
```
python VBT-barbell-tracker.py --video 'rtsp://USER:PASSWORD@192.168.1.127?tcp'
```

Commit message:

add more documentation and adjust fisheye program to use test.png

README.md, after:

# VBT-Barbell-Tracker
Optically track a barbell through its range of motion using OpenCV to give the lifter realtime feedback on concentric avg velocity, cutoff velocity, and displacement for a Velocity Based Training program.

## Motivation

...

## Journey

...

## VBT
https://www.scienceforsport.com/velocity-based-training

## Requirements
- Python 3.7
- A webcam or IP camera that supports RTSP
- Green paper/paint/etc.

## Installation

1. Create a new python 3.7 virtualenv
```
mkvirtualenv VBT-barbell-tracker
```

2. Install python requirements
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Generate intrinsic camera values to undistort fisheye/barrel effect
3. Generate intrinsic camera distortion values to remove any barrel/fisheye distortion that your camera may have. You can easily spot this by looking at the outer perimeter of your camera to see if straight lines appear curved.

a. Using your webcam, take 10 or more snapshots of the chessboard printout. Save the images as `.png` files. Adhere the printout to a board, so it's very flat. The images should be taken to ensure you cover all areas of your image plane, paying attention to the outer perimeter where most of the distortion will take place. You can find the opencv chessboard image here: https://github.com/opencv/opencv/blob/master/doc/pattern.png

b. Place these images in the `./images/` directory

c. Take another image of the area you want to undistort as a test. Save it as `test.png` and place it in the `./images/` directory.

d. Run the `python undistort_fisheye.py` script to discover the intrinsict values. They will be dumped out in a json file called `fisheye_calibration_data.json`

## Usage

```
workon VBT-barbell-tracker
```

### Running it on a video
```
python vbt_barbell_tracker.py --video press.mp4
```

### Running it with your webcam
```
python VBT-barbell-tracker.py
```

### Running it on a RTSP stream
```
python VBT-barbell-tracker.py --video 'rtsp://USER:PASSWORD@192.168.1.127?tcp'
```
